marketing guy
brand zaino

---
https://www.coinbase.com/it/institutional/research-insights/research/market-intelligence/2025-crypto-market-outlook

https://x.com/mytwogweis/status/1877595190640488708

USDp

backed by USDC/USDT/DAI/?? 1:1 deposited in selected Pareto Credit vaults. These credit vaults lend assets to institutional providers like Fasanara, Abraxas, etc that perform Basis Trade and other delta neutra strategies.
Multiple whitelisted institutional players can receive the funds that collateralize USDp (via pareto credit vaults) and periodically there will be a rebalance between players based on diff heuristics (eg their performance and reporting or fixed split TBD). Rebalancing is evaluated and done by reputable risk committee members / curators like Stakehouse, Maven11, Gauntlet, Block analitica, Pareto Labs Research, etc. (TBD)
A small part of the funds can be lent to safe on-chain yield strategies like sUSDS (new version of sDAI)
Backing assets are only able to be sent from the Minting contract to whitelisted Risk manager wallets which can in turn only send assets to selected Pareto credit vaults

Similar features to Ethena USDE https://docs.ethena.fi/#launch-features
- permissionless acquire via AMM (this creates buying pressure for the stablecoin)
- permissioned mint/redeem (KYC) with selected assets (IF THIS IS ALSO PERMISSIONLESS THEN IT'S A BIG PLUS)
- permissionaless stake/unstake for USDp <-> SUSDp

Difference with Ethena USDE is the backing of USDp with stablecoin based Pareto Credit Vaults and the rebalancing of the vaults based on performance and reporting. While ethena uses non-stablecoin assets that requires delta hedging (but it also accept USDC).

sUSDp
Once USDp is staked into SUSDp users can earn yield from the interest generated by the vaults. The interest is paid reflected in a higher SUSDp price wrt to USDp effectively creating an interest bearing token.
Yield will be also boosted by non staked USDe, for which the collateral will still be used by pareto credit vaults but the yield will be distributed to sUSDp holders only.
USDp that is staked is not rehypothecated in any way.

Peg stability mechanism
USDp is backed 1:1 with funds lent to institutional players. If one of the borrower fails to deliver the funds back to the vaults, sUSDp holders will cover the losses by having their conversion price to USDp reduced so to keep the peg for USDp stable (a stability fund will be created to have a buffer for these events before slashing sUSDp holders).

If USDp price is above 1$ then KYCed parties can mint USDp by depositing USDC/USDT/DAI/?? and the sell in the market to bring the price back to 1$.

If USDp price is below 1$ then KYCed parties can buy USDp in the market and request a redeem and receive USDC/USDT/DAI/?? after waiting the cooldown period (which depends on the borrower used in that specific moment)

A portion of the collateral (like 2%) is reserved for instant redeem (eg usds from susds)


---

PRTO and sPRTO
The risk committee memebers are voted by PRTO/sPRTO holders every 6 months.
Staked Pareto tokens sPRTO can be use to earn fees from sUSDp.
rest TBD

---
plus:

- tvl will be double counted
- overperformance
- defi integrations
- defi bd effort 

down:
- incetivizations of amm
